---
layout: post
title:  "What I learned at Salesforce Part 5: ListMe"
date:   2014-08-11 11:19:23
categories: Salesforce Internship
---

### ListMe

Our fourth and final app was [ListMe][listme-gh], a customer intake app.  It allows an organization to setup a customer intake form that records their information and puts them in a queue for the organization's service.  When a customer is serviced, the organizers can mark the customer off the queue, and ListMe can do statistics such as customer intake velocity and average wait time.  There is also a view specifically made to be put on a larger screen that will allow customers to easily see where they are on the queue.  There are also settings that determine if customers receive an email reminder when their turn is coming up.

### Non-Standard Date Input Issue

An issue that came up were date forms for standard Salesforce objects when using a non-standard salesforce form.  I found this out when I tried to add a birthday to a Contact's fieldset for the app.  When trying to save that customer the remoting call would blow up because the birthday field on the contact would take in a unix timestamp, and the input would hand in a formatted date string.  The workaround I implemented for this was 

{% highlight javascript %}

for (var key in customer) {
  if (isNaN(customer[key])) {
    var dateValue = Date.parse(customer[key]);
    if (!isNaN(dateValue)) {
      customer[key] = dateValue;
    }
  }
}

{% endhighlight %}

First, we have to know that Date.parse will take in a date formatted string and return a Unix time stamp if the string was in a proper date format, else it will return NaN.  Second, we must also know Date.parse returns a number when given a number.  Since I am working with whole Contact records (which is the variable customer), I have to go through all its fields and determine whether or not its value is a formatted date string.  I do this by checking if the current value is NaN, because the formatted date strings are Nan.  Then I use Date.parse on the value and store it in the variable dateValue.  If dateValue is a number, then I know the original value must have been a formatted date string, thus dateValue will hold the correct Unix time stamp conversion, and I can update the field to the correct value that will be accepted by the backend.

And on to my final [post]({% post_url 2014-08-11-general %})


[listme-gh]: https://github.com/chenhoward/salesforce_listme