---
layout: post
title:  "What I learned at Salesforce Part 4: Tasky"
date:   2014-08-11 10:00:11
categories: Salesforce Internship
---

### Tasky

Our third app was [Tasky][tasky-gh], a project management app that we built for the enterprise.  The big difference between this app the others I have made during my internship is that I had to do some of my own research on the specifications for the app.  It was an interesting change from getting a list of things I need to implement to figuring out what I needed to implement.  After doing my own research I decided that this app should target projects that contain about 5 - 10 members.  That meant we should keep features light and make sure things were as simple as can be.  Our app features the ability to create projects, add collaborators to the projects, and add tasks to projects.  You can easily assign collaborators to tasks, prioritize tasks, and filter out tasks assigned to you.  This app also features much more S1 standard Salesforce view integration than the previous apps.

### S1 Standard View Issue

An issue that we came across when using S1's standard Salesforce view on records is that if we create or update a record in S1's standard view that it wouldn't update the record on the app.  There isn't any callbacks that we could add to the function call that accesses the standard Salesforce View in S1 of a record.  My workaround for this issue was to implement the [Salesforce Streaming API][streaming].  By adding their streaming API I was able to let the app detect a creation or an edit to a record in the database, and it would call a javascript remoting function that would update the records in my app.

Here is a code snippet: 
{% highlight javascript %}
  $.cometd.init({
    url: window.location.protocol+'//'+window.location.hostname+'/cometd/24.0/',
    requestHeaders: { Authorization: 'OAuth {!$Api.Session_ID}'}
  });

  // Subscribe to a topic. JSON-encoded update will be returned
  // in the callback

  $.cometd.subscribe('/topic/ProjectUpdates', function(message) {
    getProjects();
  });

  /** Gets all currentProjects. */
  var getProjects = function() {
    Visualforce.remoting.Manager.invokeAction(
      '{!$RemoteAction.ProjectController.getProjects}',
      function(result, event) {
        if (event.status) {
          $scope.projects = result;
          for (var i = 0; i < result.length; i++) {
            $scope.userIds[result[i].CreatedById] = true;
          }
          getUserImages();
        } else if (event.type === 'exception') {
          alert('Exception: ' + event.message);
        } else {
          alert('error');
        }
      });
  }
{% endhighlight %}

The first cometd line sets up our streaming API.  The $.cometd.subscribe basically listens for any changes that the push topic ProjectUpdates finds in its queries, and when it finds them it will run the function getProjects.  GetProjects will then call a javascript remoting function that will get the updated projects from the server and perform some front end logic with them.

Our last app that we made was ListMe, a customer intake app.

[tasky-gh]: https://github.com/chenhoward/salesforce_tasky
[streaming]: http://www.salesforce.com/us/developer/docs/api_streaming/