---
layout: post
title:  "What I learned at Salesforce Part 6: General Web Mobile"
date:   2014-08-11 14:31:43
categories: Salesforce Internship
---

After developing a few mobile web apps for S1 I learned a few general things that anyone should keep in mind while developing mobile web apps.

1.  Be efficient whenever you can.  This just comes from the fact that mobile technology just doesn't have as much computing power as desktops.

2.  Test on mobile environments often.  This ties in heavily with 1.  Things that run like a flash on the desktop might move like a rock on your iPhone.  It's better to catch these slowdowns earlier.

3.  Do things in less clicks.  When creating UI/UX for the mobile people just want to use less clicks.  If there are too many clicks the mobile app becomes kinda useless because people would much rather use the desktop version.

4.  Maximize responsiveness.  The more responsive your app is, the faster it looks, which is a thing everyone likes. I learned that usually there is a 300ms delay between clicking something and actually running the click on mobile web browers.  Removing this delay with a library like [fastclick][fastclick-gh] will make any mobile web app look much more responsive.

5.  Use loaders if something takes a while.  At some point you might be required to do something that is slow no matter how efficient your algorithm is.  The best way to handle situations like this is to make a loader action that gives an instant response instead of waiting for a function to complete.  The reason for this is the same as 4, just having responsiveness just makes it look and feel way better.

6. Get the minified version of any javascript you import.  It saves some load time that is precious on mobile devices.  

And that concludes my Salesforce series! Thanks for reading.

[fastclick-gh]:https://github.com/ftlabs/fastclick